# Contour Curves

*Non-linear appearance of contour curves implies strong interaction*
Based on the fitted model ([cumulative
residual standard deviation plot](eda-cumulative-ressd-plot.md)) and the best data
settings for all of the remaining factors, we draw contour curves
involving the two dominant factors.  This yields a graphical
representation of the response surface.

Before delving into the details as to how the contour lines
were generated, let us first note as to what insight can be
gained regarding the general nature of the response surface.
For the defective springs data, the dominant characteristic of
the contour plot is the non-linear (fan-shaped, in this case)
appearance.  Such non-linearity implies a strong $X_1$*$X_3$ interaction effect.  If the $X_1$*$X_3$ interaction were small, the contour plot would consist of a series of near-parallel lines.  Such is decidedly not the case here.

*Constructing the contour curves*
As for the details of the construction of the contour plot, we
draw on the model-fitting results that were achieved in the
[cumulative residual standard deviation
plot](eda-cumulative-ressd-plot.md).  In that step, we derived the following good-fitting
prediction equation:

$\hat{Y} = 71.25 + 11.5 X_{1} + 5 X_{1}X_{3} - 2.5 X_{2}$ =
 71.25 + 11.5*X_{1} + 5*X_{1}*X_{3} -2.5*X_{2}

The contour plot has axes of $X_1$ and $X_3$.  $X_2$ is not included and so a fixed value of $X_2$ must be assigned.  The
response variable is the percentage of acceptable springs, so we are
attempting to maximize the response.  From  the
[ordered data plot](eda-ordered-data-plot.md), the
[main effects plot](eda-mean-plot.md), and the
[interaction effects matrix plot](eda-interaction-plot.md) of
the general analysis sequence, we saw that the best setting for
factor $X_2$ was "-".  The best observed response data value
($Y$ = 90) was achieved with the run
($X_1$, $X_2$, $X_3$) = (+, -, +), which has
$X_2$ = "-".  Also, the average response for $X_2$ = "-" was 73 while the average response for $X_2$ = "+" was 68.  We thus set
$X_2$ = -1 in the prediction equation to obtain

$\hat{Y} = 71.25 + 11.5 X_{1} + 5 X_{1}X_{3} - 2.5 (-1)$

$\hat{Y} = 73.75 + 11.5 X_{1} + 5 X_{1}X_{3}$ =
 71.25 + 11.5*X_{1} + 5*X_{1}*X_{3} -2.5*(-1) 
 =
 73.75 + 11.5*X_{1} + 5*X_{1}*X_{3} 

This equation involves only $X_1$ and $X_3$ and is immediately usable for the $X_1$ and
$X_3$ contour plot.  The raw response values in the data
ranged from 52 to 90.  The response implies that the theoretical worst is
$Y$ = 0 and the theoretical best is $Y$ = 100.

To generate the contour curve for, say, $Y$ = 70, we solve

 70 = 73.75 + 11.5*$X_1$ + 5*$X_1$*$X_3$

by rearranging the equation in $X_3$ (the vertical axis) as a function of $X_1$ (the horizontal axis).  By substituting various
values of $X_1$ into the rearranged equation, the above equation
generates the desired response curve for $Y$ = 70.  We do so similarly for contour curves for any desired response value $Y$.

*Values for X1*
For these $X_3$ = $g$($X_1$) equations, what values should
be used for $X_1$?  Since $X_1$ is coded in the range -1 to
+1, we recommend expanding the horizontal axis to -2 to +2 to allow
extrapolation.  In practice, for the
[DOE contour plot](eda-contour-plot.md) generated previously,
we chose to generate $X_1$ values from -2,
at increments of 0.05, up to +2.  For most data sets, this gives a
smooth enough curve for proper interpretation.

*Values for Y*
What values should be used for $Y$?  Since the total theoretical range
for the response $Y$ (= percent acceptable springs) is 0 % to 100 %, we
chose to generate contour curves starting with 0, at increments of 5,
and ending with 100.  We thus generated 21 contour curves.  Many of
these curves did not appear since they were beyond the -2 to +2 plot
range for the $X_1$ and $X_3$ factors.

*Summary*
In summary, the contour plot curves are generated by making use of the
(rearranged) previously derived prediction equation.  For the defective
springs data, the appearance of the contour plot implied a strong $X_1$*$X_3$ interaction.
